
NAME
dynamo - Ada Web Application Generator
SYNOPSIS
dynamo  -o

directory  ]  -t

templates  ]  -c

config-dir  ]
command  

DESCRIPTION
dynamo is a command to help developers write an Ada Web Application using the
ASF framework.  dynamo provides several commands to perform one specific task in
the development process.
First the
create-project command will be used to initiate a new project.  The project name is used at this stage
to configure the name of the root Ada package for the application.
The
add-model command will be used to create a database table mapping file.  The database mapping file
describes how to map a database table into an Ada record type for the
ADO framework.  The
generate command is then used to build the Ada model files from the database mapping files or from a UML model.
At the same time, it generates the SQL database creation schemas for MySQL and SQLite databases.
The
add-page command is then used to add web pages for the application.  When a new application
layout is necessary, the
add-layout command can be used.
To deploy an application on a production server, the
dist command can be used to prepare the distribution tree, merge various files and directories,
perform CSS and Javascript compression by using the
yui-compressor or other tools.
dynamo  uses the
dynamo.xml file to get information on the project and customize the generation.  It scans the
GNAT project files to obtain the dependencies between several
dynamo  components.
OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by dynamo:
-o directory
Specifies the directory where result files are created.  The default is the current directory.
-c directory
Specifies the configuration directory which contains dynamo configuration
files as well as template files.
-t directory
Specifies the templates directory.  This option can be used to override the
templates provided by dynamo.
COMMANDS

The create-project command
dynamo create-project [-l {apache|gpl|proprietary}] [--web] [--tool] [--ado] name author email


Create a new project in the current working directory or in the
directory specified by the
-o  option.  The project name should be a valid Ada identifier.  It represents the Ada root
package name for the project.  The command creates a set of Ada files, a configure script,
a Makefile as well as a
gnatmake  build file.  The application can be immediately compiled to obtain a web server that is ready
to run.  The
-l option allows to choose the license headers.  The tool supports the generation
of Apache, the GNU license or a proprietary license.  The author's name and email address
can be specified in the command line so that the license headers integrates them correctly.
The project type is controlled by one of the
--web ,
--tool or
--ado option.  When
--ado is specified, a command line project using Ada Database Objects is generated.  This type of
project does not use Ada Server Faces nor Ada Web Application.  When
--web option is specified, a full web application based on ASF and AWA is created.  The
--web is the default if no other option is specified.
The dist command
dynamo dist target-dir [package.xml]


After the project is compiled, this command allows to build the distribution files that
must be installed on the server.  The
dist  command reads a
package.xml  file which describes how to make such distribution by specifying the files that must
be copied.  For some files, it is possible to execute an external application that will
do some transformation on the source file and prepare it for the installation.
For example the
package.xml  description can compress the Javascript and CSS files by using the
yui-compressor tool.  Images can be optimized by using
pngcrush or
jpegtran. 

The create-database command
dynamo create-database model [connection] admin-user [admin-password]


The create-database command creates the database used by the application.
The database schema file is stored in the directory identified by
model  and is generated by the
generate  command.
The database connection string is optional.  The default database connection string
is read from the
database  property in the
dynamo.xml configuration file.  The connection string has the following form: 
driver://host:port/database


The command will connect to the database server specified by the connection string.
It will use the admin user for this connection. The database is created if it does
not yet exist. If a user is specified in the connection string, a grant command is
issued to create that user and allow him to access the new database.
Example of connection string for MySQL database:
mysql://localhost:3306/my_db?user=joe&password=admin


The MySQL server is running on localhost and TCP/IP port 3306.  The database name is
mydb  and the user
joe  is created for the application with the password
admin.  
The database tables are created by using the
create-name-driver.sql  script where
name  represents the Dynamo project name.
The create-plugin command
dynamo create-plugin name [ada | web]


Create a new plugin for the current project.  The plugin sources are created in the
plugins/\fIname\fR directory.  The optional last argument controls whether the new plugin contains
Ada sources or is a Web plugin.  The plugin can be seen as a separate small
Dynamo  project that is used by a project.  Once create, the other
Dynamo  commands can be executed in the new plugin.
The add-layout command
dynamo add-layout name


Create a new XHTML layout file.  The layout file is an XHTML facelet template which can
be used by a web page to provide a common presentation layout.  When the project is
created, at least one layout is proposed.  By adding a new layout, the application
can provide different presentation styles.  The layout files are stored in the
web/WEB-INF/layouts directory.
The add-page command
dynamo add-page name


Create a new presentation page.  The presentation page is an XHTML facelet file
which contains HTML code as well as ASF facelet components.  The presentation
pages are stored in the
web directory.
The add-model command
dynamo add-model [module] name


Create a new database table model mapping.  The model mapping is an XML file that
describes how to map a database table into an Ada type.
The model mappings are stored in the
db directory.  The database table is mapped to an Ada tagged record in the package
project-name.module.Model\fR if a module name is passed otherwise the package
will have the name project-name.Model.  The Ada record will have the name
nameRef.
The add-module command
dynamo add-module name


Add a new module to the project.  The module is composed of a set of Ada files
and a set of XHTML presentation files.  The
name  parameter is the name of the Ada child package that represents the module.
This is also the name of the directory that will contain the specific XHTML files
used for the module.
The following Ada packages are generated:
package project.module;

package project.module.Beans;

package project.module.Module;


where
project  is the project name (defined by the
create-project command) and
module  is the new module name.
The
Module  package defines the main module data type with the initialization steps.
The
Beans  package defines the Ada bean types which are specific to the module.
Each Ada bean type must be registered in the
Module  package.  The generated files are intended to be modified to implement the
module functionality.
The build-doc command
dynamo build-doc directory


Extract the documentation from the project source files and generate the
project documentation.  The Ada specification files are scanned and the
package specification header comment is used as the main structure for
the project documentation.  The XML files are also scanned and the documentation
is extracted from these files.  It can be merged together with other
documentation to build up the final project user documentation.
The info command
dynamo info


Report information about the current project.  This command scans the GNAT projects to
find the
dynamo  components dependencies.  It then lists the GNAT projects and the
dynamo  components that are used by the current project.
The help command
dynamo help name


Give an help description about a command.
The generate command
dynamo generate [model ... ]


Generate the Ada model implementation from the XML model mappings or from a UML model.
The Ada model files are generated in the
src/model directory.  Developers should not modify these files by themselves.
When no file is specified, the
generate command will read all the XML and XMI files stored in the
db directory.  It will generate all the models found in those files.
At the same time, the command generates the SQL files to create the
database tables for the supported drivers (MySQL and SQLite).
For each project, it generates a set of SQL files that can be used
to create or delete the database tables.
The
generate command is able to read XMI 1.2 model files (UML 1.4) as well as ArgoUML files (.zargo).
The UML model must use the
Dynamo  UML profile and assign the
Table  ,
PK  and
Bean  stereotypes to the model element for the generation to be activated.
The propset command
dynamo propset name value


Set a project property to configure some commands provided by
dynamo.  The property is composed of a name and a value.  It is saved in
the
dynamo.xml file.  The following properties are recognized:
PROPERTIES
The
dynamo.xml file defines several configuration properties which are used to customize several
commands.  These properties can be modified with the
propset command.
author
This property defines the author name inserted in file headers.
author_email
The author email address inserted in file headers.
gnat.project
The GNAT project file name which is used to build the project.  By default, the GNAT
project file name is the same as the dynamo project name.  This property allows to
specify a different name when the dynamo project name contains characters not allowed
in GNAT project names.
license
This property controls the license header in file headers.
The following license names are recognized:
gpl apache 

search_dirs
This property is generated automatically by
dynamo from the GNAT project paths.  It indicates the search paths
that the Ada Web Application should use to search configuration files,
resource bundles and XHTML presentation files.
database
The default database connection string.
FILES

/usr/share/dynamo/base/generator.properties
This configuration file is read by
dynamo  to configure various installation parameters necessary for the generation.
/usr/share/dynamo/base/mappings/AdaMappings.xml
/usr/share/dynamo/base/mappings/MySQLMappings.xml
/usr/share/dynamo/base/mappings/SQLiteMappings.xml
These XML files define the type mapping used in the
dynamo  model files.  These mapping indicate for each basic type used in the
XML model files, what is the target Ada, MySQL or SQLite type name.
/usr/share/dynamo/base/commands
This directory contains XML files that describe additional template commands.
/usr/share/dynamo/base/templates
This directory contains the template files associated with
dynamo  commands.
/usr/share/dynamo/base/uml
This directory contains the UML profiles that
dynamo  reads to obtain global definitions.
SEE ALSO
gnatmake(1), gcc(1), yui-compressor(1), pngcrush(1), jpegtran(1)
AUTHOR
Written by Stephane Carrez.
